README.md, before:

## Getting up and running.

Fetch source.

```
git clone git@github.com:seanareed/electronEightNgNineBoilerPlate.git 
```

Install dependencies.

```
yarn install 
```

Build Angular app and start Electron.

```
yarn build-start 
```

## Steps I took to get here.

### This was done on macOS 10.14.6 with Electron 8 and Angular 9.

Initialize empty project root as yarn directory.

```
yarn init
```

When asked, set entry point as `main.js`. If not asked, add it to the
`package.json` file.

 ```
{
  "name": "electronAngularBoilerplate",
  "author": "Sean Reed",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "description": "Core code to run an Angular 9 app within Electron 8.",
  "main": "main.js",
  "license": "MIT"
} 
 ``` 

Install Electron into project root.

``` 
yarn add --dev electron
```

Add `main.js` and temporary `index.html` at root level for Electron sanity
check.

#### `index.html`

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>It works!</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>It works!</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

#### `main.js`

```
const electron = require('electron');
const {app, BrowserWindow, ipcMain} = electron;

let mainWindow;

function createMainWindow() {
    mainWindow = new BrowserWindow({
        width: 1600,
        height: 900,
        webPreferences: {
            nodeIntegration: true
        },
    });
    mainWindow.loadFile('index.html');
    mainWindow.webContents.openDevTools();
}

app.on('ready', createMainWindow); 
```

Add script to `package.json` to use `yarn` to run this directory as an Electron
application. (`npm`/`yarn` will search the `node_modules/.bin/` directory
for corresponding binaries by default.)

```
  "scripts": {
    "start": "electron ."
  }, 
```

Test that it works.

```
yarn start 
```

Install Angular CLI into the project root directory.

```
yarn add --dev @angular/cli 
```

Add script to `package.json` to execute `ng` binary.

```
  "scripts": {
    "start": "electron .",
    "ng": "ng"
  },
```

Create new Angular app in the root project directory. When prompted, choose
to add Angular routing and select SCSS as a stylesheet format. 

```
yarn ng new ng-app 
```

Move the following contents of the newly created `ng-app` directory up to
the project root directory, including:

- `e2e` directory
- `src` directory
- `.editorconfig`
- `angular.json`
- `browserslist`
- `karma.conf.js`
- `tsconfig.app.json`
- `tsconfig.json`
- `tsconfig.spec.json`
- `tslint.json`

The Angular `.gitignore` file can replace the current root `.gitignore`.

Merge the Angular `package.json` file into the Electron `package.json` file
manually by using `yarn add` at the command line for each dependency. 

Add Angular scripts to `package.json`. Adjust the `e2e` route. Change the
Angular `start` script to be called `serve`.

```
  "scripts": {
    "start": "electron .",
    "ng": "ng",
    "serve": "ng serve",
    "build": "ng build",
    "test": "ng test",
    "lint": "ng lint",
    "e2e": "ng e2e"
  }, 
```

Use Angular built-in server to run default Angular app as sanity check.

```
yarn serve --open 
```

Remove the temporary `ng-app` directory with the old Angular `package.json` 
and `node_modules`. Serve Angular again to ensure it all still works.

Modify `angular.json` to reflect new `$schema` route:

```
"$schema": "./node_modules/@angular/cli/lib/config/schema.json"
```

Build (in dev mode) the Angular app explicitly to create the `dist` folder. 
This will be the folder referenced in the Electron `main.js` script. 

```
yarn build 
```

Change the Electron `main.js` window reference to point to the built Angular
 `index.html`. First import `url` and `path`.
 
 ```
 const url = require('url');
 const path = require('path');
 ```

Then change the browser window to load a URL not a file (but using the `file:` 
protocol, and point to the `index.html` built by Angular and output to 
`dist/ng-app`.

```
   mainWindow.loadURL(url.format({
     pathname: path.join(__dirname, 'dist/ng-app', 'index.html'),
     protocol: 'file:',
     slashes: true,
   }));
```

Change the `<base>` tag of the Angular `index.html` from `<base href="/">` to
`<base href="./">` (with the dot, not just the slash) and rebuild to ensure
that all generated dist files (`polyfills...js`, `main...js`, `vendor...js` 
etc.) can be found by the app.

Remove the initial temporary `index.html` file from the project root level.

Add script to `package.json` that builds the Angular app before launching
Electron. Use double ampersand `&&` for sequential execution as opposed to
single ampersand `&` for parallel execution.
 
 ```
    "build-start": "ng build && electron .", 
 ```

Running `yarn build-start` now should build the Angular project, output it to
the `dist` directory, and launch it within Electron.

Add `electron-builder` to the project.

```
yarn add --dev electron-builder 
```

Add build configuration for `electron-builder` to `package.json`.

```
 "build": {
     "appId": "com.example.my-app",
     "productName": "my-app",
     "copyright": "Copyright (c) xxxx My Name.",
     "directories": {
       "output": "build",
       "app": "."
     },
     "mac": {
       "target": [
         "dmg"
       ]
     },
     "win": {
       "target": [
         {
           "target": "nsis",
           "arch": [
             "ia32",
             "x64"
           ]
         }
       ]
     }
   },
```

Add `postinstall` script to `package.json` that uses `electron-builder` to
ensure that native dependencies are always matched to the Electron version.

```
"postinstall": "electron-builder install-app-deps" 
```

Add scripts to `package.json` for building the app in Mac and Windows formats. 
This builds the Angular app in production mode first. When building a Windows
app on Mac, `electron-builder` will download Wine. 

```
    "ebm": "ng build --prod && electron-builder --mac",
    "ebw": "ng build --prod && electron-builder --win", 
```

Build by running `yarn ebm` or `yarn ebw`. Builds are output to the `builds` 
directory (will be created if not exists).

Specify which files and directories to include and exclude using the `"files":`
property of the `electron-builder` configuration. Include `main.js`, 
`package.json`, and `dist`, and exclude `node_modules` in total. Since we can
use the Angular compiler in `prod` mode to build and shake everything, the
`dist` folder already contains everything we need for the Angular app. If we
add further files or folders to the Electron portion of the app in the future, 
they should be specified here too. This greatly reduces the app's final file
size (but not it's RAM requirements). 

Also set `"asar": true` to "mitigate issues around long path names on Windows, 
slightly speed up require and conceal your source code from cursory
inspection".  

```
"build": {
    "appId": "com.example.elngapp",
    "productName": "ElNg",
    "copyright": "Copyright (c) #### NNN NNN",
    "directories": {
      "output": "build",
      "app": "."
    },
    "files": [
      "dist",
      "main.js",
      "package.json",
      "!node_modules"
    ],
    "asar": true,
    "mac": {
      "target": [
        "dmg"
      ]
    },
    "win": {
      "target": [
        {
          "target": "nsis",
          "arch": [
            "ia32",
            "x64"
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }, 
```

Commit message:

Added references and links to Electron and Angular.

README.md, after:

## Electron and Angular

[Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/) is an open source library developed by
[GitHub](https://github.com/) for building cross-platform desktop
applications with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. It is licensed under the [MIT
License](https://github.com/electron/electron/blob/master/LICENSE).

[Angular](https://angular.io/) is an app-design framework and development
platform for creating efficient and sophisticated single-page apps using
TypeScript/JavaScript and other languages. It too is licensed under an 
[MIT-style license](https://angular.io/license). 

This boilerplate code provides the core resources for embedding an Angular
app within an Electron app.

## Getting up and running.

Fetch source.

```
git clone git@github.com:seanareed/electronEightNgNineBoilerPlate.git 
```

Install dependencies.

```
yarn install 
```

Build Angular app and start Electron.

```
yarn build-start 
```

## Steps I took to get here.

### This was done on macOS 10.14.6 with Electron 8 and Angular 9.

Initialize empty project root as yarn directory.

```
yarn init
```

When asked, set entry point as `main.js`. If not asked, add it to the
`package.json` file.

 ```
{
  "name": "electronAngularBoilerplate",
  "author": "Sean Reed",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "description": "Core code to run an Angular 9 app within Electron 8.",
  "main": "main.js",
  "license": "MIT"
} 
 ``` 

Install Electron into project root.

``` 
yarn add --dev electron
```

Add `main.js` and temporary `index.html` at root level for Electron sanity
check.

#### `index.html`

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>It works!</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>It works!</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

#### `main.js`

```
const electron = require('electron');
const {app, BrowserWindow, ipcMain} = electron;

let mainWindow;

function createMainWindow() {
    mainWindow = new BrowserWindow({
        width: 1600,
        height: 900,
        webPreferences: {
            nodeIntegration: true
        },
    });
    mainWindow.loadFile('index.html');
    mainWindow.webContents.openDevTools();
}

app.on('ready', createMainWindow); 
```

Add script to `package.json` to use `yarn` to run this directory as an Electron
application. (`npm`/`yarn` will search the `node_modules/.bin/` directory
for corresponding binaries by default.)

```
  "scripts": {
    "start": "electron ."
  }, 
```

Test that it works.

```
yarn start 
```

Install Angular CLI into the project root directory.

```
yarn add --dev @angular/cli 
```

Add script to `package.json` to execute `ng` binary.

```
  "scripts": {
    "start": "electron .",
    "ng": "ng"
  },
```

Create new Angular app in the root project directory. When prompted, choose
to add Angular routing and select SCSS as a stylesheet format. 

```
yarn ng new ng-app 
```

Move the following contents of the newly created `ng-app` directory up to
the project root directory, including:

- `e2e` directory
- `src` directory
- `.editorconfig`
- `angular.json`
- `browserslist`
- `karma.conf.js`
- `tsconfig.app.json`
- `tsconfig.json`
- `tsconfig.spec.json`
- `tslint.json`

The Angular `.gitignore` file can replace the current root `.gitignore`.

Merge the Angular `package.json` file into the Electron `package.json` file
manually by using `yarn add` at the command line for each dependency. 

Add Angular scripts to `package.json`. Adjust the `e2e` route. Change the
Angular `start` script to be called `serve`.

```
  "scripts": {
    "start": "electron .",
    "ng": "ng",
    "serve": "ng serve",
    "build": "ng build",
    "test": "ng test",
    "lint": "ng lint",
    "e2e": "ng e2e"
  }, 
```

Use Angular built-in server to run default Angular app as sanity check.

```
yarn serve --open 
```

Remove the temporary `ng-app` directory with the old Angular `package.json` 
and `node_modules`. Serve Angular again to ensure it all still works.

Modify `angular.json` to reflect new `$schema` route:

```
"$schema": "./node_modules/@angular/cli/lib/config/schema.json"
```

Build (in dev mode) the Angular app explicitly to create the `dist` folder. 
This will be the folder referenced in the Electron `main.js` script. 

```
yarn build 
```

Change the Electron `main.js` window reference to point to the built Angular
 `index.html`. First import `url` and `path`.
 
 ```
 const url = require('url');
 const path = require('path');
 ```

Then change the browser window to load a URL not a file (but using the `file:` 
protocol, and point to the `index.html` built by Angular and output to 
`dist/ng-app`.

```
   mainWindow.loadURL(url.format({
     pathname: path.join(__dirname, 'dist/ng-app', 'index.html'),
     protocol: 'file:',
     slashes: true,
   }));
```

Change the `<base>` tag of the Angular `index.html` from `<base href="/">` to
`<base href="./">` (with the dot, not just the slash) and rebuild to ensure
that all generated dist files (`polyfills...js`, `main...js`, `vendor...js` 
etc.) can be found by the app.

Remove the initial temporary `index.html` file from the project root level.

Add script to `package.json` that builds the Angular app before launching
Electron. Use double ampersand `&&` for sequential execution as opposed to
single ampersand `&` for parallel execution.
 
 ```
    "build-start": "ng build && electron .", 
 ```

Running `yarn build-start` now should build the Angular project, output it to
the `dist` directory, and launch it within Electron.

Add `electron-builder` to the project.

```
yarn add --dev electron-builder 
```

Add build configuration for `electron-builder` to `package.json`.

```
 "build": {
     "appId": "com.example.my-app",
     "productName": "my-app",
     "copyright": "Copyright (c) xxxx My Name.",
     "directories": {
       "output": "build",
       "app": "."
     },
     "mac": {
       "target": [
         "dmg"
       ]
     },
     "win": {
       "target": [
         {
           "target": "nsis",
           "arch": [
             "ia32",
             "x64"
           ]
         }
       ]
     }
   },
```

Add `postinstall` script to `package.json` that uses `electron-builder` to
ensure that native dependencies are always matched to the Electron version.

```
"postinstall": "electron-builder install-app-deps" 
```

Add scripts to `package.json` for building the app in Mac and Windows formats. 
This builds the Angular app in production mode first. When building a Windows
app on Mac, `electron-builder` will download Wine. 

```
    "ebm": "ng build --prod && electron-builder --mac",
    "ebw": "ng build --prod && electron-builder --win", 
```

Build by running `yarn ebm` or `yarn ebw`. Builds are output to the `builds` 
directory (will be created if not exists).

Specify which files and directories to include and exclude using the `"files":`
property of the `electron-builder` configuration. Include `main.js`, 
`package.json`, and `dist`, and exclude `node_modules` in total. Since we can
use the Angular compiler in `prod` mode to build and shake everything, the
`dist` folder already contains everything we need for the Angular app. If we
add further files or folders to the Electron portion of the app in the future, 
they should be specified here too. This greatly reduces the app's final file
size (but not it's RAM requirements). 

Also set `"asar": true` to "mitigate issues around long path names on Windows, 
slightly speed up require and conceal your source code from cursory
inspection".  

```
"build": {
    "appId": "com.example.elngapp",
    "productName": "ElNg",
    "copyright": "Copyright (c) #### NNN NNN",
    "directories": {
      "output": "build",
      "app": "."
    },
    "files": [
      "dist",
      "main.js",
      "package.json",
      "!node_modules"
    ],
    "asar": true,
    "mac": {
      "target": [
        "dmg"
      ]
    },
    "win": {
      "target": [
        {
          "target": "nsis",
          "arch": [
            "ia32",
            "x64"
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }, 
```
